History of MusicLearningCommunity.com


The history of our company is directly tied to the life of its Founder and Director, Christine D. Morton Hermanson.  MusicLearningCommunity.com is the culmination of years of experience in music, music teaching, and music education technology.


Born in Lansing, Michigan, Christine Morton grew up in Muskegon, Michigan.  She began music lessons at an early age and had private piano instruction with Irene Kolkema, who was also a church organist.  Christine, an honors student, excelled on the piano and participated in school vocal programs.  Later, in high school, she was the accompanist for the high school choir. Following her successful high school activities, Christine enrolled in the University of Michigan Music School, securing a Bachelor of Music, with a K-12 teaching certificate and minors in Piano Performance and voice.


During her college years Christine met William Hermanson.  Bill was a senior when Christine was a freshman at the same high school.  He was also an honors student, sang in the men’s choir (before Christine became the accompanist), played clarinet in the Symphony Band, and was the drum major.  He attended the University of Michigan pursuing an engineering degree, where he participated in the University of Michigan marching band, but then changed majors to economics and business, graduating with honors from Grand Valley State University in Allendale, Michigan.


As Bill completed his degree in western Michigan, Christine was pursuing hers in eastern Michigan.  After their marriage they lived in Ann Arbor and Bill had a job with the University of Michigan in a consulting capacity.  Bill’s position required a move to Traverse City, Michigan and Christine followed, becoming the first student to complete her University of Michigan degree at the extension program at Interlochen Fine Arts Academy.  She did her student teaching at the Traverse City public schools and was immediately offered a position as Choir Director in the Junior High School.


So the experiences of Bill and Christine by this time encompassed piano performance, voice, organ, band, public school teaching, engineering, economics, business, and consulting.  And they were just getting started.


Bill’s entrepreneurial inclinations, and Christine’s family move to Florida, resulted in Bill and Christine moving to Sarasota, Florida to start a swimming pool construction company.  At the time the salaries for music teachers in the Florida public schools were much lower than in Michigan, so Christine decided to start a private music teaching practice.  This became very successful.  She became active in music teacher organizations, making life-long friendships, and during this time Christine performed with the Sarasota Symphony at the Van Wezel Performing Arts Hall.


Although the pool business was growing, the national economic picture was not good, and income slowed.  The business was taking up a lot of time and effort for both Bill and Christine, as Christine handled the office while Bill was running the rest of the business.  So Bill switched careers and entered the savings and loan business (ultimately becoming the youngest senior vice president in the company’s history).  Christine decided to start a music school.  This grew to hundreds of student’s with twelve teachers involved.  Piano, voice, Suzuki violin, band instruments and harp, and summer art programs were offered.  Christine at that point was unaware of the fact that she had one of the largest successful private music schools in the country.


Around this time the advent of the personal computer offered an opportunity.  It was actually Bill that ran across a software program created by the Minnesota Computing Consortium that featured music games.  He and Christine discussed the possibility of adding technology to music teaching.  This turned out to be a pivotal moment.  Bill and Christine, who were still renting houses, took money intended for a real estate purchase and instead made an investment in an Apple IIe and a simple piece of music education software.  This became a part of Christine’s private teaching and then part of the music school.


With Bill’s technical background and Christine’s musical prowess this new technology started getting a workout.  Christine looked for more software as it was just being developed, and experimented with finding out what worked and what did not work in music education.  In this process she became acquainted with the early pioneers in music education technology, including Roger and Diane McRea, who with Temporal Acuity Products were providing the TAP Master and Pitch Master systems and Micro Music Software Library.  These electronic devices were extremely successful in teaching rhythm and pitch, and Christine saw the dramatic results in her own studio.  As she experimented and looked for more technology, she became acquainted with other software start-up companies and became a beta tester for some of them.


Numerous contacts and experiences during this time period resulted in Christine obtaining specific knowledge that she was excited to share with her peers.  Her contact with the industry pioneers and her personal experience in applying this new technology in her studio convinced Christine that the proper application could greatly aid the music student, and that the world of music education was changing.


She gave numerous presentations at music teacher organization events and made more contacts with those in the music technology industry.  The music school at this point included multiple electronic keyboards used in partner piano lessons, multiple computers, various pieces of music education software, and technology integrated into the piano and voice curricula.  Bill was using a computer and early spreadsheet software (Visi-calc) to produce student billing and teacher payroll.


As the music technology industry grew and became more competitive, there was a need to help music teachers know what worked and what did not work.  Pieces of software could be side by side on the store shelf and one would be very valuable and effective while the other one could be almost worthless.  Just because something was “computerized” did not mean that it was “better” or that it “worked”.  Since Christine was continually getting asked about her experiences, and finding few good sources of information, she published a book that evaluated numerous pieces of software and offered ratings on effectiveness.  Other music teachers adopting this new technology could be guided in their decisions on what to invest in and what to avoid.  Active in the Music Teachers National Association (MTNA), Christine began making presentations nationally as well as locally on the use of music education technology.


With Temporal Acuity products Christine became a partner participant in the development of Pianoworks, the first MIDI piano teaching system.  These early versions were followed by the Musicware products “Piano” and “Sing”, that were sold worldwide, and sat on the computer software store shelves right next to Microsoft and Apple products.


But big changes were occurring.  The software industry was experiencing dramatic advances and big failures as competitive and economic forces were at work.  After making a huge investment to re-tool Musicware Piano for Windows 95, Microsoft delayed its implementation and Musicware went out of business several years later.  The cost for software producers to keep up with the changes in technology, in a competitive (and relatively small) music market was becoming excessive.  Many early pioneers closed up shop.


Being in the middle of this, Christine (and Bill) were still convinced of the effectiveness of the application of the right technology in music education and had seen many successes.


Changes took place with the Hermanson family as well, as a move to St. Louis took place.  Bill had again changed careers, becoming Controller for a private school in St. Louis.  And their oldest son, Eric, was enrolled there as a high school freshman at age 12.  Eric, clearly, was an advanced student and needed a special environment to allow him to thrive.  He was already benefitting from innate talent and quality instruction in music, and was an accomplished pianist.  (He was actually enrolled at the University of South Florida in a music program before the move to St. Louis at age 11).  When he was twelve Eric won the prestigious Scott Joplin piano competition in St. Louis, competing against college students.  Son, Paul was born soon before the move, and son, Brian was born a year later in St. Louis.


By now the music studio in Sarasota, Florida had been sold and Christine decided to stop private teaching.  Instead she was concentrating on the development of music education technology, and she began travelling the country giving presentations and master-level classes in music technology.  She had already become the national specialist for MTNA, organizing and conducting the National Symposium on Technology in Music that preceded the MTNA national conference each year.  Teachers paid an extra amount, and arrived early, to be able to participate in the Symposium, which united private teachers, music industry, and software industry participants in exploration and use of music education technology.  There are many teachers teaching today that were introduced to new technology at these symposia.


Packing up several electronic keyboards, and the two youngest sons, Christine and Eric would drive the Dodge van from St. Louis to South Carolina, Texas, Florida and other places teaching week-long professional development sessions.  One embarrassing moment occurred when Christine was preparing for a presentation at a college.  The acoustic pianos had been moved into the hall to make room for the electronic keyboards and, while Christine was speaking with several professors, little son Brian walked up to an acoustic piano and asked where the “On” switch was.  When one of Christine’s commitments conflicted with a requested presentation at the Missouri State conference, young Eric, age 13, acted in her stead and presented music notation software technology to the session.  He was a hit!


After being the director of the MTNA Symposium for seventeen years, Christine passed the baton to others and concentrated on pursuing an idea that had been developing for several years.  She wanted to create software to support music education that she could control and develop without computer programmer help, would be economical for the music teacher, would make effective use of the technology, and could be kept abreast of the times.  In order to pursue this she decided to enroll at Southern Illinois University, Edwardsville and get a Masters of Science in Instructional Technology.  As her final project she created MusicLearningCommunity.com games using Adobe Flash.  She graduated with a 4.0.


Soon the whole family became involved.  Bill set up the limited liability company MusicLearningCommunity.com, LLC for the venture.  Son Eric, now a college graduate in Business and Computer Science, created the back-end database and security.  Paul, a budding graphic artist in high school took photographs to be used as game backgrounds, and created the mascot, Terry Treble.  Brian, possessing a wonderfully attuned ear, acted as game tester (almost as close to his heart as playing video games).  Christine created a beta version of the website and asked several music teacher friends to test it for her with their students.  The kids loved it! And they clearly were learning the concepts. At the next MTNA conference Christine presented the concept to several of her long-term friends, who were very supportive of the effort.


At the 2006 MTNA national conference in Seattle, WA (coincidentally the home of Roger and Diane McRea of Temporal Acuity Products) the commercial website MusicLearningCommunity.com was introduced and was an immediate success, with a number of teachers immediately signing up for subscriptions and many others signing up for free trials (50% of whom later became members).  A large percentage of those first members were still members seven years later.


 Several concepts integral to the design are extremely important.  First, the website presentation was effectively “in the cloud” years before that term became widely used, which means that the music teacher did not have to buy software to install on his or her computer and the product could be used anyplace internet access was available.  This also allows for continuous updating without requiring any action to be taken by the client (the teacher or student).  Additionally, the games are designed to teach very specific concepts with a goal toward mastery of each concept.  This method of delivering very small bites of information has been proven to be very effective.  To determine mastery the games include automatic quantitative scoring.  This provides a specific measure of degree of mastery of a concept.  When the student achieves the target score his or her mastery of the concept is almost certain.  Additionally, the presentation of the learning material as engaging games makes otherwise rote learning much more interesting to the student, who then is encouraged to persist in his or her endeavor, and much less labor-intensive for the teacher.  From the business side, the use of a subscription model with a low price provides a continuing stream of income; which supports continued product improvement, return on investment, and company survival; forces maintenance of high quality and effectiveness, or the teacher will not find it to be valuable; and permits use of the electronic payment systems, reducing labor.  Prove of the model’s overall success is found in the number of students served, the number of teachers using it and the continuing improvement of the product.


Over the next several years the business continued to grow, more and more students were being served, and, because this is internet technology, it spread worldwide.  Very little advertising was done—teachers were referring other teachers to the learning games based upon their successful experiences.  Anecdotal evidence was indicating great success with the students—those using MusicLearningCommunity.com games were out distancing their peers and having success in competitions and standardized evaluations.


Reports came of an unexpected consequence.  The simple and engaging game presentation turned out to be very supportive of the learning efforts of children with special needs, particularly those diagnosed as autistic.  Not only did they enjoy the activity of playing the music games, noticeable improvement in other areas of their experience came as a result of that activity.


Some major universities had started using MusicLearningCommunity.com in afterschool programs and in conjunction with piano pedagogy classes.  And public schools began using it as part of computer labs, using electronic whiteboards very successfully.


The next major effort, other than continuing to add new games, one after another, as fast as she could do them, Christine approached the issue of supporting the various teaching methods teachers use, for example Alfred and Faber, just to name two, as well as various state curricula.  So she set up individual student pages that correlated individual games to the sequencing of concepts presented by these external methods.


Yamaha Corporation approached MusicLearningCommunity.com to explore partnering with their Music In Education (MIE) program.  As a result a separate curriculum was created so that MusicLearningCommunity.com could be the “at home” component of the MIE program.  This experiment demonstrated the value of being able to have game sequencing that matched external curricula.


A landmark was hit in 2011 when database reporting showed that over 60,000 students had been served in over 40 different countries.  Although the website has been almost self-supporting, help calls do come in from time to time.  When one Sunday morning around 3:00 am Christine received a call from a teacher whom she discovered in the conversation was calling from Hong Kong, she realized that she had achieved the level of success she was looking for.  But this was not the end, just the first level of achievement.  Now the next part of the dream was just around the corner.


By now, Eric had become an accomplished software developer and project manager, an occasional trombone player in the local symphony orchestra (he plays piano, organ, trombone and horn) and an in-demand church organist.  Paul had graduated from Truman State University with a degree in trumpet performance.  Among his achievements was winning the brass competition in the MTNA Missouri State contest, acting as a college sports photographer, teaching other college trumpet students (using MusicLearningCommunity.com), finding that he has a beautiful singing voice, and expanding his artistic and commercial graphic arts skills.  Brian, a saxophone player in high school, taught himself electric and acoustical guitar, started composing and recording, and then secured his certification in Pro Tools audio engineering software via an online course with Berklee Music School in Boston.  Brian’s wife, Zandrea, is a voice performance major and belongs to a musical family.  As they worked together Brian’s two and half octave singing voice was discovered.  They have music careers in front of them.


The several years of experience with MusicLearningCommunity.com demonstrated its successes, but also revealed what else was needed to continue to keep its status as the premier product in the industry.  What was needed was a complete redesign of the backend of the software to add desired functionality, and a facelift to the front end.


For the last years Bill had been in a financial systems consulting occupation that involved extensive weekly travel.  He was working with cities, counties, university foundations, and K-12 public schools across the nation.  This was lucrative, but also made time at home limited and valuable.  Just handling the accounting and other business aspects of running the MusicLearningCommunity.com LLC was all that he could do.  But to update and revise the website was more than Christine could tackle alone.


So the first step was to engage a programmer to update the front end.  This was the first time that outside help was engaged, other than the web-hosting services.  The plan was to present a new look as soon as possible.  But even while this was going on a major family decision was made, and a long-suppressed vision brought to the front.  Bill decided to quit his position and devote his efforts full-time to the family business, and to expand it to fulfill the vision developed when MusicLearningCommunity.com was started.  To fulfill that a young, innovative and progressive software firm in St. Louis, Spry Digital, was contracted to build a new website from the ground up, incorporating all the successful features already proven and new ones that had been on the “to do” list for years.  And all of the family, with their varied musical and technological talents, became enlisted in the effort.


An entirely new foundation structure was created that enables automatic assignments to students of any of many different named curriculum sequences.  And these assignments consist of video, text, and audio elements in addition to the games.  Automatic achievement awards upon reaching goals are included.  Custom teacher assignments were now possible.  All-in-all the labor required by the teacher was dramatically reduced at the same time the overall functionality was significantly improved.


Since much of the growth of MusicLearningCommunity.com is directly attributable to referrals by one teacher to another, a program providing rewards to referring teachers is included.


From this effort came what is now presented as a full community of music education technology products and features and multiple websites for delivery.  


The flagship MusicLearningCommunity.com website was converted to a teacher resource center and primary source of information about music education technology.


The music games were moved to the new ComePlayMusic.com website, and significant automation added, along with some new rhythm teaching technology. Christine had developed a Lifetime Musician Curriculum that she used to sequence the games from primary upward.  This is now the default sequence for the automation unless a teacher selects a different one.


TerryTreble.com was created to provide various products to be used as incentives and awards for students.  


ComeSingMusic.com is currently under construction.  It will specifically address the needs of voice students.  Some new technology responsive to microphone input is included.


PianoLessonsLive.com is currently under construction.  It will provide adult-level piano teaching with remote live piano teachers.  The technology to do this effectively exists, but needs to be combined with a specialized curriculum.


Additional internet domains have already been reserved for more websites to be added to the community and made available to all lovers of music.


A labor of love, a successful commercial venture, and a significant contributor to support of music education throughout the world, a lot of effort has been expended, but our motto continues to be:  COME PLAY! 


Christine Hermanson
Bill Hermanson
Eric Hermanson
Paul Hermanson
Brian Hermanson