USER ROLES
There still seems to be confusion about the roles we need.  And we are not sure of your capabilities in how to configure the functionality. So, we are re-stating our needs here to help clarify.  Let me define the user roles: (1) Subscriber, (2) Teacher-Admin, (3) Teacher, (4) Student.


For the ENSEMBLE plan:
Subscriber (Administrator) has full capabilities for the website, with the exception that it does not have Student capabilities.
Teacher-Admin, when present, has full capabilities for the website, with the exceptions that it does not have Student capabilities, and cannot “manage the subscription” (payment info, add and subtract students, etc.)
Teacher is created by the Subscriber or Teacher-Admin, and has teacher capabilities, and does not have Student capabilities.
Student is created by a Teacher (usually), but could be created by Subscriber or Teacher-Admin as well.  Student has its own unique capabilities, including game playing, score recording, & score lookup.


For the SOLO plan:
Subscriber (Administrator) has full capabilities for the website, with the exception that it is not a Student.
Student is created by a Teacher as well.  Student has its own unique capabilities, including game playing, score recording, & score lookup.


Here is a more complete description of basically what we are putting on our website and in the knowledge base.


“USER ROLES – [Linked to Musici Teachers, Schools, & Parents landing pages] 
(Members may find more detailed information in RESOURCES, under USER HIERARCHY).  For SOLO subscriptions the last two roles are combined in one person, and is the same as the Teacher.  For ENSEMBLE subscriptions the Teacher-Admin may be combined with the Subscriber-Administrator, or may be two separate individuals.
        Students 
                Games
        Teachers                
                Games
                Manage Students
                Access Resources
        Teacher-Admin          
                Games
                Manage Teachers and Students
                Access Resources
        Subscriber-Administrator
                Manage Subscription”


“USER HIERARCHY  [Dashboard Page—Resources], expandable headings
Note that with the ENSEMBLE subscription the Subscriber-Administrator always has full access to the site (except as a Student), but the non-business activities can be delegated by creating a Teacher-Admin with a different username and password. This is helpful in school situations where one individual handles the business office aspects (e. g. payment info, add & subtract student seats, cancel subscription) and another handles the educational activity (creating teachers, assigning students, etc.)


For a PRELUDE subscription the Subscriber-Administrator can create one Teacher and the Teacher-Admin is grayed out (inoperative)
For a SOLO subscription the Subscriber-Administrator has all the capabilities of a teacher (and is the same person).  The Teacher-Admin is grayed out (inoperative)


Subscription-Administrator
° Created as part of the original subscription process, including a unique username and password.  User editing is enabled.
° Payment information addition and edit.
° Schedule pause and restart of monthly subscriptions.
° Number of student seats addition (annual subscription) or additions and reductions (monthly subscription)
° Subscription identification and payment data addition and edit.
° Subscription termination (student scores data retained in system for 13 months).
° Receives copies of communications sent by MusicLearningCommunity.com via e-mail.
° Christine Hermanson Grant Program administration (future feature).
° All of the Teacher-Admin capabilities
° All of the Teacher capabilities


Teacher-Admin
° Created by the Subscriber-Administrator as an option by providing a unique username and password [Ensemble], or is not present (or grayed-out) [Prelude, Solo].
° Teacher/Admin dashboard access
° Receives copies of communications sent by MusicLearningCommunity.com via e-mail.
° Create Teachers [ENSEMBLE] by providing usernames and passwords.
° Assign and/or move students to specific Teachers
° Game scores history viewing of all students.
° Delete individual student and scores history records
° Create students by providing usernames and passwords.
° Specific game sequence assignment to students.
° Play on-line games individually selected (no scores are recorded for Teacher-Admin)


Teacher
° Created by a Teacher-Admin by providing a unique username and password [Ensemble], or defaults from Subscriber Admin [Solo].
° Teacher/Admin dashboard access
° Create students by providing usernames and passwords.
° Specific game sequence assignment to students.
° Game scores history viewing of his or her students.
° Play on-line games individually selected (no scores are recorded for Teachers)


Regular Student
° Created by a Teacher or Teacher-Admin by providing a unique username and password.
° Play games, either sequenced or individual, via access to the student dashboard.
° Game scores history can be viewed individually.
° Challenge games participation, competing with other students world-wide.


Generic Student (often used for General Music classes)        
° Created by a Teacher or Teacher-Admin.
° Uses any of several general usernames and passwords created by a Teacher or Teacher-Admin.
° Play games, either sequenced or individual, via access to the student dashboard.
° Scores are recorded for each username—but are irrelevant since multiple students use the same usernames.